and jubilant Jimmy Hoffa sweeps in as
new president of the Teamsters only
Jimmy Hoffa can rejoice at his continued
good luck honest union members and the
general public can only regard it as a
tragedy I stand here today before you as
I stood in front of that Portantino am i
guilty now you put down two three sticks
of dynamite you put two sandbags against
that that blows it inward not outward
that what you're testifying before this
committee I am saying that I do not
recall and my grateful things we have
faith someone somehow somewhere can help
us locate our father murdered 55-gallon
drop gateway transportation New Jersey
are you absolutely certain that no one
within 299 had anything to do with a car
bombing well I bet my life on it
most people know very little about Jimmy
Hoffa he was a union leader he
disappeared and nobody knows what
happened to him but the story is much
more complicated than that
tracking hafez rise to power lead you to
the muscle of organized crime
tracking the Teamsters pension fund that
Hoffa founded leads to Las Vegas which
he helped build by funneling millions of
dollars to the mob tracking off his
downfall takes her through a web of
corruption betrayal and in the end
murder this is a story about power
there was nothing Jimmy Hoffa wouldn't
do to have it and when he lost it
nothing he wouldn't do to get it back
that every strike we have with employers
who really want to fight they revert the
hiring hoodlums and unless we know who
our enemy is unless we're in a position
to do something about it
you Lucia strike Jimmy Hoffa
fighter at an early age he saw how hard
life could be on a working family he was
just 6 years old when his father died
very likely from years working the coal
mines in Indiana Jimmy's mother moved
the family to Detroit at age 14 he
dropped out of school and went to work
to help support his family
at age 18 he organized his first strike
while working for the Kroger company
unloading produce from refrigerated
boxcars for 32 cents an hour the work
was grimy it was tough it didn't pay
much and all those things caused Hoffer
to think this is no way to make a living
one sweltering summer day Jimmy
convinced fellow dock workers to stop
unloading a shipment of strawberries the
foreman demanded they get back to work
berating and threatening the crew young
Jimmy stood firm and handed over a list
of demands with fresh fruit spoiling on
the loading dock Jimmy Hoffa won his
first negotiation for the group that
became known as the strawberry boys his
career as a union organizer was launched
American workers needed a leader and
they had found one people were in misery
economic misery you know you look at it
you had a third of the nation unemployed
many of those lucky enough to hold a job
were powerless to the crushing weight of
big business you could be fired for
organizing companies would hire off-duty
policemen they would use them to bust up
picket lines
in 1937 the threat of workers organizing
led to a deadly confrontation on
Memorial Day in Chicago a crowd of
protesting workers marched on republic
steel mill a formation of Chicago police
opened fire wounding over 100 workers
killing 10 that same spring in Detroit a
group of UAW members were beaten outside
Ford Motor Company's River Rouge complex
in a confrontation known as the Battle
of the overpass they were trying to hand
out leaflets calling for better pay
Hoffa was not part of either event but
he watched and learned it never bothered
Jimmy to get bloodied on the front line
Hoffa believed that business was a
rigged system and he would do whatever
it takes to win for Jimmy Hoffa
the only rule was to win power the only
worthwhile commodity violence the
bargaining tool of choice he was dealing
in environment I think in which people
exercise power very physically very
violently at that point in time it's
what you grew up in the 1930s in the
labor movement in the 1940 it was a hard
business you had to be tough to survive
you had to fight lets it carry that
fight Hoffa needed muscle and he knew
where to get it
he started interacting with guys like
the Meili brothers Santo Peron Frankie
three fingers Coppola guys like that
were kind of
bringing Hoffa into the organized crime
mix of Detroit with powerful friends
behind him Jimmy Hoffa rose quickly in
the Teamsters Union as a recruiter and
organizer in Hoffa workers saw hope the
mob saw opportunity the racketeers saw
Hoffa as a rising star someone that had
a lot of savvy a lot of swagger someone
that was a natural leader and had the
ability to do their bidding if they got
him into power
Detroit local 299 became well-known as
one of the Teamsters most violent and
fierce locals there were bombings of
businesses employers often considered
enemies for that work
he hired a bomb expert a guy named Joe
Franco we all carried sandbags in our
car because he put down two three sticks
of dynamite you put two sandbags against
that that blows it inward not outward
Franco said that back in the old days
there were two kinds of jobs that Hoffa
required 95% of was in house but the bad
stuff was about 5% out of the house and
he would hire that killing somebody put
somebody in the hospital that was in
house blowing up a truck that's not
going to hurt nobody the subtlest strike
fight another other picket lines that
was in house that's all in house that's
all labor but the other stuff that would
be considered heavy duty then he would
go outside and buy it by the 1950s Jimmy
Hoffa's partnership with organized crime
had grown strong they had plans of
expansion out west and he had access to
millions of dollars Papa didn't create
Las Vegas but he built a good portion of
it with money loaned to the mob from the
Teamsters pension fund that he
established in 1955 the Teamsters was an
offshoot of the Mafia in a lot of ways
Hoffa was a mobster that was parading as
a Labour politician
in another life Jimmy Hoffa might have
been a mob capo April of 1956 a smiling
Teamsters president Dave Beck honors his
popular Vice President Jimmy Hoffa
within a year Hoffa would secretly feed
the government information about backs
corrupt dealings that would trigger
investigations by the IRS FBI and
eventually the United States Senate
despite charges that he had taken over
$300,000 of union funds teams to
president Dave Beck continued his
stubborn silence yesterday as the latest
series of hearings on corrupt practices
and organized labor came to a crashing
halt the McClellan committee was formed
to investigate the influence of
organized crime and labor
the committee's chief counsel was a
young lawyer from Massachusetts named
Bobby Kennedy as the Teamsters again or
some other unit it allows the teams to
his teams the President date back was
among the first call to testify do you
honestly believe that if you answered
truthfully under questions that this
committee might ask you regarding your
transactions with the Union that you
represent that a truthful answer there
too might tend to incriminate you the
answer is it might that invoked his
Fifth Amendment right to silence 117
times and though he stymied the Senate
Beck was later convicted on corruption
charges and sent to prison which opened
the door for Jimmy Hoffa and jubilant
Jimmy Hoffa sweeps in
James Hoffa was a constant target of
investigations but he remained a
champion of the rank and file and was
elected president of the Teamsters in
1957 by a three-to-one margin his rise
to the marble palace in Washington was
complete Jimmy Hoffa fought and won many
battles in Detroit but now he was on the
radar of the Kennedy brothers and the
fight that took him to Washington
stirred genuine hatred on both sides
Hoffa and the Kennedys a blood feud when
we come back
he was a great enemy of Bobby Kennedy
and by it went beyond politics they
hated each other my break is back who
you are the hope to anyone to give his
speech I don't even know what I was
talking about I don't know what you're
talking about mr. Hoffa oh I'm trying to
find out I'll tell you what I'm talking
about I'm trying to find out who's back
you were going to break figure of speech
Bobby Kennedy to me as the greenest
crime fighter who's ever lived I mean he
went after when he was a chief counsel
in the Senate rackets committee he was
any mafia guys for breakfast but
initially Bobby Kennedy was reluctant to
take on the labor unions an
investigative reporter named Clark
Mullen Hoss who had uncovered links
between the unions and the mob pushed
Kennedy pushed him hard he was almost
bullying Bobby saying well you'll never
go after the unions because your brother
might want to run for president someday
and you're a Democrat and you need the
unions so you're not tough enough to go
after the unions but you need to have
this committee that you're on take a
look when the McClellan hearings opened
body kennedy aimed his laser focus on
Hoffa
has been stated publicly that I'm
controlled by gangsters I am not
controls I am mr. Hoffa yeah that would
make a great deal of sense
I'd be very sympathetic if it wasn't for
the fact that a majority of these people
are in the Central State Conference at
least 15 who have to reach a please
record you've got Joey Glencoe in
Chicago I say you're not tough enough to
get rid of Kennedy challenged Hoffa
about alleged kickbacks from the mob in
this exchange $20,000 in cash with no
clear source i no sir I cannot and I
don't know I don't care to try and
recall back my entire lifetime since I
started to working at the age 17 as to
how I accumulated money or how I spent
it to finally arrive in having $20,000 I
could afford to invest and finally lost
could yes or was it in cash that you put
it yes was there do you have any record
of it no would you tell us where you got
the cash I accumulated it it played like
a boxing match between two heavyweights
though Hoffa was the savvy veteran he
bobbed and weaved through the hearings
and Kennedy never landed a solid punch
it amazes me that you have such a poor
memory about your relationship with
Johnny deal during these months of 1953
well it may amaze you but I assure you
that my memory as the best that I could
recall at this moment is such the
McClellan hearings last is 270 days
questioned 1500 witnesses and convicted
20 individuals but Jimmy Hoffa walked
away clean
but the Kennedy half a feud was only
just beginning in 1960 John Kennedy was
elected president which forever steamed
Hoffa I don't believe you publicly
endorsed former vice president Richard
Nixon
but would you have been happier to see
him moving the
yes I would have rather see the Vice
President Nixon elect the President of
the United States
Kennedy named his brother Bobby Attorney
General he formed a strike force that
came to be known as the get Hoffa squad
Bobby Kennedy made it his life's mission
to put Jimmy Hoffa in prison while they
were often on opposite sides of the law
RFK and Hoffa were actually alike in
some ways they each used every tactic in
the book they planted moles in each
other's camps a wiretap to each other in
1962 Hoffa went on trial for bribery as
far as the law regarding bugs and
wiretaps America was still the Wild West
Bobby Kennedy had the FBI Hoffa had his
adopted son Chuckie O'Brien and Ernie
the bug spin down I work with Bernie we
bugged the the judge's office the
judge's phone in Chattanooga and we
wired the FBI I mean they were doing to
us so we revert we did the reverse Bobby
Kennedy believed he had a slam-dunk case
against Hoffa when asked for a
prediction of the outcome he said if
Hoffa is acquitted I'll jump off the top
of the Capitol dome
the trial ended with a hung jury and the
judge declared a mistrial Hoffa was
defended by an up-and-coming lawyer
named Edward Bennett Williams after
Hoffa was acquitted Edward Bennett
Williams sent a parachute over to Bobby
Kennedy's office to kind of give him a
little dig I stand here today before you
as I stood in front of that court and
took an oath and I was not been guilty
nor am i guilty now only Jimmy Hoffa can
rejoice at his continued good luck
honest union members and the general
public can only regard it as a tragedy I
was on Stemmons freeway earlier and even
the freeway was jam-packed with
spectators waiting their chance to see
the president November 22nd 1963 the
country was shaken by tragedy the
motorcade
every person listening at this moment
has flashed back to that day in April
1945 when Franklin Delano Roosevelt
gives me Chad here is a flash from The
Associated Press Dateline Dallas two
priests who were with President Kennedy
say he is dead of bullet wounds every
American with a recollection of that day
remembers where they were when the news
broke Jimmy Hoffa was in Miami in the
restaurant when awful learned of that he
got to his feet and cheered and was very
happy about that and then after that he
refused to drop the flag half-mast at
teamster headquarters in d.c 16 years
later Congress established the House
Select Committee on assassinations
assigned the job of reviewing the
conclusions by the Warren Commission
that Lee Harvey Oswald had acted alone
chief legal counsel of that committee
was Robert Blakey what we concluded
because of a time ran out that yes there
was a conspiracy the committee
discovered that both the FBI and CIA had
information about Lee Harvey Oswald that
they had withheld from the Warren
Commission that President Lyndon Johnson
had pressured the FBI to close the
investigation quickly for political
reasons he didn't want to talk of a
conspiracy hanging over him in the 1964
presidential campaign acoustical
evidence of a fourth shot had been
ignored and then there were the
witnesses and the witnesses in the plaza
who said a shot came from the grassy
knoll
were passed off by the Warren Commission
as not credible
among those witnesses three men in the
lead car of the motorcade four Souls had
the Secret Service
the chief of police and the County
Sheriff they all said a shot came from
the grassy knoll in the months that
followed the committee's final report
new evidence alleged the conspiracy was
not from within the CIA or the Pentagon
or Cuban exiles but from the Mafia with
Jimmy Hoffa possibly at the center
I believe Hoffa put a contract out on
John Kennedy to stop his brother I think
that the contract was picked up by
Carlos Marcello the mafia boss in New
Orleans Santo Trafficante the mafia boss
of Tampa Florida who then arranged and
executed the murder no charges were ever
brought in the Kennedy assassination
Jimmy Hoffa had also allegedly tried to
recruit a corrupt Union boss from
Louisiana
named ed Parton to bomb Bobby Kennedy's
Virginia home in an interview with
investigator dan moldea ed Parton shared
details of a conversation he said he had
once had with Jimmy Hoffa when they
Barney you mean the kid
he said that's right but they thought of
it don't this is I waited a minute
that's a hang will be no part of live
here in March of 1964 prosecutors
brought new charges of jury tampering
against Hoffa the key government witness
was Edie Parton who said he turned on
Hoffa
because Burton had five children of his
own and Hoffa had violated a code of
honor going after an enemies family to
the end Hoffa denied it off even by
manufacturing as he did deliberate lies
distortions creating a belief that I had
something to do with the jury tampering
if there was such Jimmy Hoffa was found
guilty and sentenced to eight years
later that same year he was convicted of
fraud for improper use of the Union
pension fund and received an additional
five years Jimmy Hoffa's reign over the
Teamsters Union was over in March of
1967 Hoffa went to prison to begin
serving his 13-year sentence he named
his longtime friend Frank Fitzsimmons to
lead the Union while he was gone and
this brings a new player into the story
President Richard Nixon the backroom
deals between Frank Fitzsimmons and
Nixon would trigger a violence split in
the Teamsters Union and launched Jimmy
Hoffa's ill-fated comeback
they took Fitzsimmons up to the mountain
on the shoulder of the valley and he
bought the valley and he forgot his
French and then he double-crossed Baynes
very simple shut down the the entire the
entire country with a phone call snap of
a finger you know no trucks are moving
nothing's getting shipped cross country
Carta jizz is shut down because Jimmy
Hoffa wants it and that's a that's a lot
of power to wield and he wielded that
power like a blunt instrument one of the
people who saw that power up close is
this man Marvin the weasel Elkins
in the late 50s he was a busboy at the
Copacabana in New York one day mob
lieutenant Tony Salerno told Marvin he
was getting a new job Friday
they here this is why I'm trying to dart
to do a good job he says as of Monday
you're gonna be to me hostage driver I
didn't know Jimmy Hoffa but I heard a
lot of stories I was 18 scared the crap
out of me
three days later Marvin met mister Jimmy
Hoffa this is good morning mr. Hoffa
says are you Marvin Aiko's yes sir
this is a good start mr. Hoffa or sir
remember that
Marvin quickly learned there were two
ways to perform any assignment the Hoffa
way and the wrong way rule number one
you must never be late picking me up
rule number two came with an explanation
but you here in his car he stays in this
car if I hear you talking to anybody
about what you hear in this bar it won't
be around the next morning for the next
five years
Marvin drove mr. Hoffa wherever he
wanted to go often with a distinguished
cast of mafia chiefs in the back seat
Marvin says he kept his eyes on the road
and wished many times there had been a
glass partition between him and the
conversations in back I was fearful
percent of the time years after he
finished that job as a driver
the mob still had their hooks in Marvin
and he got himself in some big-time
legal trouble he was forced to become an
informant for the FBI and they gave him
that unflattering nickname the weasel
the experience gave Marvin an
interesting perspective on working with
the feds the authorities are no
different than the mob they got you by
this road they got you by the throat
with the mob they threatened you overly
the feds did it
diplomatic Lee in March of 1967 Jimmy
Hoffa experienced some of that diplomacy
the most powerful man in America
checked into federal prison in Lewisburg
Pennsylvania
he had installed Frank Fitzsimmons as a
placeholder of the Teamster presidency
until Hoffa would return but Fitzsimmons
had a different plan
he had a comfortable hands-off
relationship with organized crime and he
cultivated a cozy relationship with n
President Richard Nixon in early 1970
Fitzsimmons first broached the subject
of a pardon for Jimmy Hoffa on two or
three occasions Fitzsimmons mentioned to
me he said you know there's a lot of
anxiety in the Union about Jimmy Hoffa I
said frankly I can't even discuss that
with it Charles Colson special counsel
to them President Richard Nixon was part
of many conversations in the White House
about Jimmy Hoffa Nixon wanted teamster
support and he liked Frank Fitzsimmons
who he viewed as easy to work with and
loyal which Nixon valued above all else
a sentiment he made clear in an oval
office conversation with Coles Nixon was
confident that his dealings with
Fitzsimmons were earning him popularity
with the Teamsters which he desperately
wanted for his re-election campaign in
Nixon's advisers counseled that
releasing Hoffa was politically a good
idea the rank-and-file
still loved him but Nixon believed hafez
released should wait until after
Fitzsimmons was elected Teamsters
president for another term in the summer
of 1971 and Hoffa had to be kept away
from the Union or he would be trouble a
topic Nixon discussed with labor
secretary George Shultz but if others
feel he's a little unpopular
what he has today the decision was made
Hoffa would get his release from prison
he said we're going to give Huffer a
parole but on the condition that he
never come back into the labor movement
again you can contact Fitzsimmons and
tell him what we're doing on December
23rd 1971 Jimmy Hoffa walked free from
federal prison after serving four years
nine months and 16 days this morning
Hoffa and his family gathered around the
Christmas tree and posed for pictures
mrs. Hoffa who was still recovering from
a serious heart ailment was overjoyed by
her husband's homecoming I didn't think
it was possible though I never gave up
hope and my grateful thanks to President
Nixon for making this possible Jimmy
Hoffa was home but not happy he vowed to
fight the restriction in court he blamed
his former friend Frank Fitzsimmons they
took the pitch Simmons up to the
mountain and shoulder of the valley and
he bought the valley and he forgot his
French and then he double-crossed me
it's very simple Hoffa sued to have the
restriction nullified but court rulings
held it in place still he was determined
to regain control of the Teamsters Union
because he believed its three million
members wanted him it's kind of a
general impression around that although
US strength lies with the teamster
membership but simmons has tried to
build up strength through his close
associations with the Nixon
administration to no votes in the
convention of the Nixon administration
not a single vote they can't give him
can you think that amongst the rank and
file you're still number one I would say
there's no problem but there were
serious problems brewing within local to
99 over split loyalty between Hoffa and
Fitzsimmons there were a series of acts
of violence we're talking about the
bombing at Tom wills home the bombing of
Jim Levitz
Jeane pages barn Dave Johnson's cabin
cruiser the shooting of George Roxboro
got hit they shot him in the face with a
shotgun the boiling point was one more
high-profile bombing Frankfurt Senate
son Richard Fitzsimmons is that Emo's
bar over by Tiger Stadium his cars
parked there and his Union car it's as
units not his home as old personal parts
as Union car is bombed are you
absolutely certain that no one within
299 had anything to do with that car
bombing was that my life on it from the
outside it looked like a mutual struggle
for power on one side Frank Fitzsimmons
and his designated muscle in local 299
Rolland McMaster on the other side Jimmy
Hoffa the war appeared to be each side
with thugs committing acts of violence
against the other but investigator dan
moldea says that wasn't the case at all
now all the violence is one way it was
all going one way we're all going
against hafez people well Dan says Frank
Fitzsimmons was behind the bombing of
his own son's car to show the that
there's real violence going on at both
sides they decide to bob dick
Fitzsimmons Carl
so that was strictly for show it was
purely for show it was a message for
Jimmy Hoffa one final warning to back
off but he wouldn't do it
Hoffa wanted the power back in his hands
and his obsession with that proved fatal
who killed Jimmy Hoffa when we come back
Hollywood's latest take on that question
are you Frank is Jimmy off your friend
Jimmy off blockbuster film just released
directed by Martin Scorsese starring al
pacino as Jimmy Hoffa
Robert DeNiro as Frank Sheeran who's the
title character the Irishman the film is
billed as the real story of what
happened to Jimmy Hoffa but many of the
experts we talked to are not convinced
Scorsese's movie Frank Sheeran is his
omage
to Oliver Stone's JFK great cinema
horrible history Jimmy I'm trying to
tell you something I know yo you're
telling me to thank me me and I got to
do what they say which is absolutely
right it's the bottom line dan moldea
says Jimmy Hoffa always downplayed his
associations with organized crime and
that tells an incomplete story
I'm sure this film is gonna portray him
as he tried to portray himself during
those early days as a as a hero the
rank-and-file as a as a as a
working-class hero the title character
of the movie the Irishman is Frank
Sheeran he was a high-ranking officer in
the Teamsters Union and a longtime
friend of Jimmy Hoffa several years
before Frank Sheeran died he wrote a
book detailing his relationship with
organized crime although actually he
wrote two books about his life in the
mob the first one generated very little
interest in his book couldn't sell and
then when they put it back on the market
with him telling everyone that he was
the one that that killed Jimmy Hoffa
soul became a New York Times best seller
and now Marty Scorsese Robert DeNiro out
between you and Joe Pesci are making a
movie out of it this is not to say that
Frank Sheeran wasn't a very bad guy he
had a close relationship with
Pennsylvania mob boss Russell Bufalino
and took on the role of hired muscle
but Sheeran spoke with apparent pride at
being a mob hit man responsible for
several highly publicized assassinations
I'm sure Frankie Sheeran did did some
pretty nasty work I just don't think
he's committed the murders he's good
he's big murders he's confessed oh I
don't believe one word out of Frank's
here in the mouth you gotta sit down
everybody says so dan moldea says a
couple of years ago he crossed paths
with Robert De Niro and couldn't resist
sharing his critique of the project I
wasn't even there to be diplomatic I was
there to get in his face and I talked to
him that day
that night the way he talked to people
at the movies because he was giving you
this nonsense that this is the story
about Jimmy Hoffa's death this is the
true story and I said Bob you're being
conned and it went downhill from there
so it's not Frank Sheeran then who did
kill Jimmy Hoffa and why we'll get some
answers when we come back and when I had
coffee with you today before I warned
him I said mr. Hoffa
there's a lot of people very upset in
his words to me were my people will
never harm me
in the spring of 1975 Jimmy Hoffa was
restless and angry he wanted the
Teamsters presidency back that he felt
had been stolen from him
Joey after Nixon partyman and he found
out he couldn't get back into the Union
he was gonna take every effort he could
to do that and in order to do that he
had threatened to reveal the mobs
involvement with the Teamsters Hoffa
began his campaign by meeting with crime
bosses around the country and he holds
these meetings he kind of takes the
temperature and he realizes that the mob
doesn't want him back that they don't
want him as the president again they
they're gonna do everything effort to
prevent him from taking the presidency
back the Union gave Hoffa a 1.7 million
dollar lump sum pension payout the
message was clear
hey thanks Jimmy here's a whole bunch of
money now go away and and enjoy your
retirement
but Hoffa wouldn't let go he decided he
needed to make peace with an old friend
Tony Provenzano a teamster official and
a captain in the Genovese crime family
in New York at one time they had been
good friends but Hoffa and Tony Pro had
become bitter enemies over power and
money threats being thrown back and
forth not just threats to murder each
other but threats to murder each other's
families it got incredibly bitter
incredibly intense very fast but now
Hoffa needed provenzano back on his side
if Hoffa wants to win back the Teamsters
presidency it's necessary that he makes
peace with provenzano because Provenzano
controls the entire delegation on the
East Coast you controlled the voting
bloc that Hoffman needs to win back the
presidency Hoffa and Provenzano met on
neutral ground to talk out their
differences it didn't go well and it was
a bit of a disaster where you had both
men meeting in a hotel suite in Miami
supposedly grabbing ahold of each other
and trying to choke the life out of each
other before they were separated getting
no help from mob bosses and no help from
Tony Provenzano Jimmy Hoffa went to
option number three immediate or to sell
his comeback to the American public he
was playing a card and speaking to the
mob through the media and this didn't
sit very well with them they don't like
being threatened Hoffa was running out
of options the word on the street was
that he had cut a deal at this point I
believe Hoffa went to the FBI went to
the US Attorney's Office you helped get
the restriction from my commutation
lifted so I can run in 1976 and I will
give them information on organized crime
and when I get into office I will purge
the organized crime influence from the
Teamsters rumors of that arrangement may
have sealed Jimmy Hoffa's fate some
members of hafez own former inner circle
one person being Chuckie O'Brien was
going around telling people in Detroit
that Jimmy Hoffa was a snitch that Jimmy
Hoffa was an FBI informant the decision
was made at the highest levels of
organized crime in Detroit Chicago New
York Hoffa had to go the best way to get
Hoffa out of the open was to tell him
that Tony Provenzano was open to making
a peace agreement the meeting was set
Detroit crime boss Tony Giacalone II
would broker a truce between Hoffa and
Provenzano hafez former driver Marvin
Elkins says he had a bad feeling when I
had coffee with him the day before I
warned him I said mr. Hoffa
there's a lot of people are very upset
in his words to me were my people will
never harm me on the afternoon of July
30th 1975 Jimmy Hoffa drove to the
parking lot of the Marcus red fox
restaurant in Bloomfield Township and
waited 90 minutes after the scheduled 2
p.m. meet a car with several men inside
at dub G me Hoffa and he was never seen
again we would also like to make a
special appeal to the some two million
brother-and-sister teamster members for
them to aid us in solving this
heartbreaking mystery Tony Giacalone II
told the FBI there never was a planned a
meeting and he made sure he had a solid
alibi with witnesses for the day Hoffa
disappeared he spent the entire day in
the Southfield Athletic Club and he was
not a particularly approachable person
in normal events but it seems like every
15 minutes he was asking somebody in the
Southfield Athletic Club what time is it
now Tony Provenzano had people in New
Jersey who swore he was there in
meetings all day with them the FBI
suspected Jimmy Hoffa's estranged
adopted son Chuckie O'Brien as one of
the men in the car that carried Hoffa to
his execution but Chuckie had a fish
story of an alibi
I'm carrying in the house and and she's
a particular housekeeper and she's
yelling at me you're ruining my floor
you're getting that water and blood all
over
O'Brien said he had borrowed a car from
Joey Giacalone II son of Tony to deliver
a large frozen salmon to teamster
executive Bobby Holmes and his wife
Holmes stood by that alibi and she told
me that she had to wash the kitchen
floor and mop up blood that was in the
or the water the blood were every was
that was in the garage
what did he do with the salmon we
brought it in brought it in you my wife
butchered it up steak didn't put in the
deep freeze so you've got it in the
freezer now some of it we've eaten so
we'd be able to see it know what the
hell you think him the FBI focused on
two men as hafez suspected assassins
Thomas and Rhetta and Salvatore
bergoglio both soldiers in the Genovese
crime family who worked for Tony
Provenzano Gregorio was brought twice
before a federal grand jury in Detroit
investigating hafez disappearance he
refused to testify and the FBI never had
enough evidence to charge him a guy
named Phil Moscato who owned a notorious
landfill in New Jersey shared his ideas
with investigator dan moldea he would
not say right out Sal burger Leo's a guy
who killed Hoff he said Frank Sheeran
did not kill him it's boy he did not
kill Frank Sheeran had nothing to do
with the actual murder of hawk but he
would not say sow his best friend was
but you believe he was oh no doubt about
it all signs pointed toward a
cooperative effort
I do believe personally that the
problems are those and and rather than
the people from Jersey were the
principal moving figures although I do
believe people in the Detroit organized
crime family were involved as well no
charges were ever brought against anyone
if Jimmy Hoffa's disappearance which
brings us to the question that has kept
the mystery alive for more than 40 years
where is Jimmy Hoffa we're writing down
in the elevator I said you know mr.
Vitali I can keep you out of jail
boy at least tell me where Jimmy help is
for 40 years where is Jimmy Hoffa's body
in May of 2004 police pulled up
floorboards in a Northwest Detroit home
but found nothing 2012 police dug up a
backyard in Roseville nothing 2013
acting on a tip from mobster Tony
Cirelli
who died two years later the FBI dog on
a farm on Buell Road in Oakland Township
all the speculation of working is and
we're eating not they say he was a
anomie grinder and saw baloney
what happened to Hoffa was very simple
he got picked up over there
he was buried where I said he's buried
but Hoffa was not buried there why have
there been so many seemingly credible
tips Detroit crime historian Scott
Bernstein says it's because the jackal
Oni brothers launched a campaign of
misinformation to cover-up the perfect
crime they would you know intentionally
tell 30 people 30 different things and
those 30 people that they were telling
this knew that the person that were
telling them would be in the know so it
would then kind of filter out towards
people that they then told there was no
shortage of theories on what happened to
Jimmy Hoffa
number one Keith Corbett former
assistant US attorney and Scott
Bernstein have come to the same
conclusion that there is no body to be
found I believe then the body was
disposed to have at a place called
central sanitation in Hamtramck was
owned by peat vitality and jimmy quasi
rano bunny and they had these gigantic
compressors for cardboard where they can
press three four or five tons of
cardboard at one time and shred it down
to little pieces of paper I believe that
Jimmy Hoffa was incinerated and then
surprisingly a couple of months after -
disappeared that the place burned down
what a coincidence what a coincidence
and it was before the FBI could ever get
a search warrant to get in there a
logical and credible theory but it's
only one of many possibility number two
a new character enters the story a
small-time criminal named Donovan Wells
who died this past year Wells was
represented at one time by a Birmingham
lawyer now retired named Jim Elsa I got
him off through talking to the FBI to
cut a deal and they they did cut him a
reduced deal but in 2006 an FBI search
focused on a farm in Milford once owned
by union leader and Hoffa enemy Rolland
McMaster Donovan Wells and his wife
lived on that farm back in 1975 at that
time neither of them shared with the FBI
what they claim to have seen on that day
that Hoffa disappeared she's in the
kitchen and she's washing dishes looking
out towards Pontiac trail and she sees
two cars come streaming down Pontiac
trail make a hard right into this dirt
road into the dirt road which goes all
the way into the back he observes out
the kitchen window of McMasters
farmhouse close by a backhoe
diggie and then a white sheet and a body
dropped into the hole so like he saw
this he said he saw he saw it with his
eyeballs that's right I believe that
Hoffa was murdered on that farm I think
the cars roaring up I think that was
those that's where the death was I think
those were that the death awful was in
one of those cars and he was murdered
the FBI dug up that farm but found
nothing but dan moldea throws an
interesting wrinkle into that episode
he says Donovan wells showed him a
diagram of the farm with the exact
location of the hole where he claimed to
have seen someone dump a body a diagram
the FBI used to pick their spot for the
2006 excavation they got south and north
mixed up its they were supposed to be
digging over here
yeah well the FBI dug in the wrong place
they tugged at the wrong place they dug
in the wrong place they averted the map
the diagram that Don had drawn for them
didn't bring him up from LexA Kent and
they dug in the wrong place does that
mean hafez body might be buried on that
farm in Milford dan moldea says he now
believes the body was there originally
but moved murdered 55-gallon drum
Gateway transportation New Jersey New
Jersey landfill operator Phil Moscato
told dan moldea
about a day in 1975 when hit man
Sandberg ooh Leo pulled up in a truck he
tells me on tape that the the Gateway
truck pulls up that is dump and he is
Sal unload the 55-gallon drum and bury
it that is done now keep in mind that's
a theory there are more hafez former
driver
Marvin Elkins believes Jimmy Hoffa is
buried under the Renaissance Center
he remembers a Teamsters convention in
Detroit back in the 70s I was here at
the convention - my job bringing the
executives drinks
get in and what they need is letting
their cigar he stuff like that Marvin
says his source is Detroit mob boss Tony
Giacalone e Marvin was part of mr.
jackal oneis entourage as they walked
past the Renaissance Center the man
known as Tony Jack turned to the group
Nicholas
boys say good morning to mr. Hawk
there's no question in my mind never
added it it says exactly where he is
former assistant US attorney Keith
Corbett says one day about 30 years ago
he took his own swing at solving the
Jimmy Hoffa mystery he found himself in
an elevator at the federal courthouse
with Peter Vitale a Detroit capo
convicted of extortion Corbett thought
might as well ask I said you know mr.
Vitali I can keep you out of jail we got
these tell me when to be happy and he
looked at me and you know I was probably
in my 30s at the time he's probably 17
let's get me sit I don't rat out my
friend not I don't know who did it I
don't know what you're talking about
I know that was the code that many of
those people live by maybe Peter Vitali
did know the answer and there are those
who believe the FBI knows the answers
but is keeping many of the Hoffa files a
secret why 25 years ago the late Ken
Walton at one time special agent in
charge of the Detroit FBI office made a
surprising statement I know who killed
Jimmy Hoffa
I know why they killed Jimmy Hoffa
Walton said the FBI had insufficient
evidence for prosecutors to move forward
with charges so none were ever filed and
many files locked away we reached out to
the current FBI but we're told the
bureau doesn't comment on open cases
about the jackal earnings of
tacos God there can't be did the people
in New Jersey have died now there may be
some peripheral figures but all the main
players that had passed the Detroit Free
Press fought a ten-year legal battle
over FBI files sought through the
Freedom of Information Act the Free
Press sued the government twice and
finally the FBI was forced to release
thousands of pages of Hoffa documents
here's a sample of some of those
documents so heavily redacted as to
render them useless should the FBI
release the remaining awful files
the answer is yes or no depending upon
who you talk to
if you can't indict somebody and convict
them you really shouldn't throw names
out in the press and despite what we may
see in politics today when you started
getting into this and Bobby Kennedy and
Jack Kennedy who Hoffa hated are
involved there could be lots of
motivation for the FBI to say we want
this to go cold so if the sealed files
protect some group or individuals who is
it
and the answer is I don't know Jimmy
Hoffa's disappearance remains one of the
most enduring mysteries of the 20th
century will we ever get all of the
answers probably not but in reporting or
investigating crime and corruption just
as important as the answers is that
ethical and persistent people keep
asking questions
[Music]